# Preliminary Analysis of the Relationship between Adult ADHD and Brain Connectome Data

**Warning**: This is a repository for the final coursework project. 
The data published online are synthesized due to privacy concerns. 
They ought to be used to help the users understand our codes instead of obtaining meaningful analytic results.
Please be careful if you are interested in our work. 

## Introduction

Recent studies revealed the relationship between adult ADHD (Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder) and brain structures and activities. 
This project explores the feasibility of diagnosing adult ADHD using brain connectome data. 
Meanwhile, we built up baseline models based on census-based traits representing an individual's cognitive abilities, comorbid substance use, demographic information, and health features.

The data used by our project is:

* Response variable: Adult self-reported DSM-5 ADHD Problem Raw Scores (`DSM_Adh_Raw`).
* Brain connectome data:  $68 \times 68$ Structural Connectomes (SC) and Functional Connectomes (FC), and $60 \times 1$ PCA data (TNPCA) of the connectomes.
* Census-based traits: traits measuring an individual's cognition, substance use, psychiatric history, emotion, physical health, and family information.

Due to privacy concerns, we did NOT publish the original data but a synthesized data set that contains all the variables required by modeling.

The repository is organized as follows:

```
.
├── README.md
├── renv.lock         # File containing the information of dependencies
├── Code              # Folder containing all the scripts
├── Data              # Folder containing data
│   ├── Checkpoints   # Folder containing the well-trained models
│   └── img           # Folde containing the plots generated by scripts
└── EDA               # Folder containing the RMDs for EDA
```

## Dependencies

Clone the repository and open `ADHD_Analysis.Rproj` in Rstudio so that you are working on an R project. Then go to the terminal and run the following command to restore the environment used by us.
```R
install.packages("renv")
renv::restore()
```

## Replication

To replicate our work, please first clone the repository, open `ADHD_Analysis.Rproj` in Rstudio, and install the dependencies as instructed. 
Move to the folder `Code`, and source the scripts by their respective numberings (follow the order 1->2->3->4). Scripts with the same numbering can be run in any order. 

Here is a brief introduction for each numbering:

* Number 1: The script for processing variables concerning the census-based traits;
* Number 2: The script for processing variables concerning the connectome data;
* Number 3: The scripts for the baseline models;
* Number 4: The scripts for the prediction models based on connectome data.


## Notice

We only uploaded synthesized data because of privacy concerns. Therefore, you are likely to receive meaningless results with the `alldata.rds` under the folder `Data`. 
If you are interested in how ground-truth models look like, please refer to [Checkpoints](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1DPx18iJDBTvLGyI8XGyyKb4I2fsiBeqN/view?usp=sharing).



